# Regression-Analyis-on-Gene-and-Environment-Factors
The essence of this project surrounds a paper, "Influence of life stress on depression: moderation by a polymorphism in the 5-HTT gene" (Caspi et al. 2003) ,in which the authors use regression techniques to model depression based on certain factors. The paper discusses the development of depression and the role a person’s genetic makeup along with the stressful situations a person has endured throughout their life as possible factors. It focuses on how a person deals with stressful situations in life and relates this to one’s genetic makeup to test the relationship between these two things and the onset of depression. The authors of this paper found interactions between gene and environmental variables in their regression analysis. These gene-environment interactions have been scrutinized by other researchers and considered an error made by Caspi et al. In the paper "Interaction Between the Serotonin Transporter Gene(5-HTTLPR), Stressful Life Events, and Risk of Depression: A Meta-analysis" (Risch et al. 2009) the researchers deny this claim of gene-environment interactions and conclude that there is only correlation between the stressful events in one’s life and their development of depression. My conclusion is that, based on the given data, only environmental impacts were significant in causing depression in individuals. My methods included data cleaning and merging, advanced imputation on missing values using the EM Algorithm, multiple regression, and stepwise selection in both directions. The referenced papers can be found below: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/10654279_Influence_of_Life_Stress_on_Depression_Moderation_by_a_Polymorphism_in_the_5-HTT_Gene https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2938776/
